Boy, we're hot now.
Prinada bone the Gideon a bone the I guess I
chryso eqeoth ir tridai
gaman bagani seith enkyle
echan al gan cor cumberig Seattle
Now in my fractured Welsh, that means
good afternoon ladies and gentlemen
a big welcome to all of you attending the third
Gaman Bagani sponsored by the Seattle Welsh Choir.
A few years ago, I won't tell you how many years ago it was
I had an English professor
and he always admonished in the speech classes
he said don't ever ever start out your talk or your speech
based on an apology.
So to show you what a good student I was
I'm going to apologize
by saying yesterday morning I woke up
and I couldn't even speak and the only one of course
who was happy about that was probably my wife
laryngitis
so when I sing with the choir this afternoon
I think I'm going to be the only one who can sing
two different parts at the same time.
The hard working committee who planned and scheduled
today's outstanding program have insisted that I keep
my remarks as brief and succinct as possible.
So after careful rewriting and editing
I have cut it down to a bare minimum of
what did you time me at Michael?
27 minutes.
Okay.
We're fortunate again for the third year
to have as our organist Kathy Youngers.
Kathy had been the organist at this church for several years
until her recent defection to another church
to which I will not give the satisfaction of naming.
However our Welsh heritage rubbed off on Kathy
enough so that when we asked her to play today
she didn't hesitate at all and said yes
and not only that but selected the lovely Welsh hymn tunes
that you've just heard in the prelude.
I know you won't believe this but there's one hymn tune there
that I didn't recognize
and it's Llan Sanon and I'm going to ask Kathy
just to play a couple lines of it
and when she does I want those of you who recognize it
I want you to raise your hand.
Kathy please.
How many of you recognize it?
There's one.
There are some.
Well bless your hearts.
Okay I think Tim wherever he is
the Welsh choir's got some research to do.
That's a lovely thing.
I think it's great.
Before I introduce our chairman for today
today's program of song and music
I would like to have your cooperation
and just some of the logistics of today's activities.
As is the custom of long standing
at any Kamanwagani it's followed by a tabach.
So for your safety and comfort
the ushers are going to direct you to the fellowship hall
down below immediately after the program as follows.
First the balcony and if you folks were the late comers
boy you got a break you get to go down first.
Secondly the chapel and then the sanctuary
starting with the last rows
and we'll just exit in a nice orderly fashion
and I assure you there will be plenty of good things left
for the last ones to go down.
In fact about it you may have to kind of clean it up you know.
While you're waiting to be escorted down
I think I'd give you an excellent opportunity
to check with your neighbors
say hello to them, introduce yourself
and ask where did you come from?
And that kind of reminds me of a young lad
about 10 or 11 years old who lived in Portmattock
that's up in northern part of Wales
and one evening after dinner he asked his dad
he says Todd where did I come from?
Well his father had somewhat expected
that such a question was inevitable
so without too much hesitation he answered
Matthew you're a product of the love
your mother and I have for each other.
Every child in this world is the physical embodiment
of the love between his parents.
Your mother carried you until it was time for you
to make your appearance into this world
and we have loved and cared for you ever since.
So after a few moments of serious thought
Matthew exclaimed to his father
Coo Todd I think that's astounding.
I've got to get over to Willie Jones' place straight away.
Well why do you want to do that Matthew
it's getting kind of late.
Well Tad I've got to tell Willie where I came from.
His dad says he came from Aberystwyth.
It's my pleasure now to introduce
the chairman of today's program Mr. Philip Humphreys
and because of the great importance of this event
Phil rushed to Seattle after basking
in the climes of Algeria this past week
and Phil in turn will introduce the participants
in our program following the invocation.
So for the invocation would you all please rise
and I will present to you the Reverend Dr. Robert D. Nicholson
the pastor of the Lake City Presbyterian Church.
Jochen Bauer.